starting on filling in internal details (#31)
MrAlias/otel-schema: OTEP.md

* Versioning: needs to be able to version stability while evolving
* (stretch) The file format can be validated client side.

## Internal details

> Each language implementation supporting OpenTelemetry *MUST* produce a model that is available for applications to leverage. This allows implementations to provide a configuration interface without the expectation on users to load a configuration file. The following demonstrates how Python and Go may provide a configuration interface to accomplish this:

Reviewer: Is this necessary? If someone wants to do programatic configuration, why not skip this step and directly build the SDK?

Author: It's a good question. I guess since we're providing a data model for configuration, it seems like it should be available for use from the code, but maybe not?

I imagine this to be syntactic sugar to reduce the surface area of what folks interact with when configuring OTel.

Reviewer: If I were a user I'd minimally want the following options:

```
// Read config file to string
String config = Files.readString(Paths.get("/config.yml"));

// Interpret config and return configured SDK
OpenTelemetrySdk sdk = OpenTelemetryFileConfig.configure(config);

// ..or just pass the path to the file
OpenTelemetry sdk = OpenTelemetryFileConfig.configure(Paths.get("/config.yml"));
```

Maybe you'd also want to be able to validate a file is syntactically correct and not configure an SDK. Could have validate methods for that:
```
try {
  OpenTelemetryFileConfig.validate(config);
} catch (Exception e) {
  e.printStackTrace();
}
```

Having a programatic representation of the config schema like you've suggested would be a natural response from a validate call. Could then pass it to a configure method:
```
// Read config file to string
String config = Files.readString(Paths.get("/config.yml"));

// Validate the config and parse to the programatic representation
OpenTelemetryFileConfig parsedConfig;
try {
  parsedConfig = OpenTelemetryFileConfig.parseAndValidate(config);
} catch (Exception e) {
  e.printStackTrace();
}

// Configure SDK fro programatic representation
OpenTelemetrySdk = OpenTelemetryFileConfig.configure(parsedConfig);
```

Perhaps the programatic representation is useful in some languages, but probably not all. In java, it reads very similarly to configuring the SDK programmatically, and feels redundant. Maybe it can be a MAY instead of a MUST?

Author: I've updated the MUST to a MAY. Thinking about this some more though, since instrumentations may use this configuration as well, I'm leaning towards the SDK and the instrumentations providing a method to configure themselves via a configuration model.

Something like this:

```
try {
  cfg = OpenTelemetryFileConfig.parseAndValidate(filename)
} catch (Exception e) {
  e.printStackTrace();
  exit();
}

OpenTelemetrySDK sdk = sdk.WithConfiguration(cfg)
OpenTelemetryInstrumentationX x = x.WithConfiguration(cfg)
```

Having the configuration method return the SDK would cause any SDK to have to reimplement the configuration parsing. I guess maybe that's desirable as they may have different configuration requirements?

Though for instrumentations I wouldn't expect each instrumentation to have to re-implement configuration parsing. Similarly, I wouldn't expect the configuration parsing to know how to instantiate every type of instrumentation.

Reviewer: Hadn't thought about the instrumentation side of things. Makes sense to have some sort of `cfg` object / class that can be passed around so it doesn't have to be reparsed. 👍

Author: Added more details to the PR. PTAL @jack-berg @srikanthccv

* Versioning: needs to be able to version stability while evolving
* (stretch) The file format can be validated client side.

## Internal details

In order to provide a minimal API surface area, implementations *MUST* support the following methods.

> ### LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename, format)
> 
> An API called `LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile` receives a string parameter indicating the file containing the configuration to be loaded. An optional format parameter may be provided to indicate the format that this configuration uses. The default value for this parameter is `yaml`. The method returns a `Configuration` model that has been validated. This API *MAY* return an error or raise an exception, whichever is idiomatic to the implementation for the following reasons:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filepath, format)

An API called `LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile` receives a string parameter indicating the file path containing the configuration to be loaded. An optional format parameter may be provided to indicate the format that this configuration uses. The default value for this parameter is `yaml`. The method returns a `Configuration` model that has been validated. This API *MAY* return an error or raise an exception, whichever is idiomatic to the implementation for the following reasons:
```

```go

filename := "./config.yaml"
cfg, err := otel.LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename)
if err != nil {
  return err
}

filename := "./config.json"
cfg, err := otel.LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename, otelconfig.WithFormat("json"))
if err != nil {
  return err
}

```

### Configuration model

To allow SDKs and instrumentation libraries to load configuration without having to implement the parsing logic, a `Configuration` model *MUST* be provided by implementations. This object:

* has already been parsed from a file or data structure
* has been validated

(TBD what methods should this configuration model make available for SDKs/instrumentations?)

### Additional interface: LoadAndValidateConfiguration

Each language implementation supporting OpenTelemetry *MAY* support parsing a data structure instead of a file to produce a model. This allows implementations to provide a configuration interface without the expectation on users to load a configuration file. The following demonstrates how Python and Go may provide a configuration interface to accomplish this:

#### Python LoadAndValidateConfiguration example

```python

> opentelemetry.LoadAndValidateConfiguration(

Reviewer 2: nit: Once you have the data structure, does it still make sense to prefix `LoadAnd`? Could this be `ValidateConfiguration`? The `Load` part is not clear to me. Does it exist to indicate it returns a Config object? If so would `ValidateAndRetrieveConfiguration` be more clear?

Author: Maybe something along the lines of ParseAndValidate?

Reviewer 2: ParseAndValidate sounds much better, but I don't think this is really a concern.

* file doesn't exist or is invalid
* configuration loaded is invalid

#### Python LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile example

```python

filename = "./config.yaml"

try:
  cfg = opentelemetry.LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename)
except Exception as e:
  print(e)

filename = "./config.ini"

try:
  cfg = opentelemetry.LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename, format="ini")
except Exception as e:
  raise e

```

#### Go LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile example

```go

filename := "./config.yaml"
cfg, err := otel.LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename)
if err != nil {
  return err
}

filename := "./config.json"
cfg, err := otel.LoadAndValidateConfigurationFromFile(filename, otelconfig.WithFormat("json"))
if err != nil {
  return err
}

```

Implementations *MUST* allow users to specify an environment variable to set the configuration file. This gives flexibility to end users of implementations that do not support command line arguments. Some possible names for this variable:

* `OTEL_CONFIGURATION_FILE`
* `OTEL_CONFIG_FILE`

> * `OTEL_CONF`

Reviewer 2: Probably add `_SDK_` to not to confuse? I have seen people use `OTEL_CONFIG_FILE` for collector config in their internal systems.
